.TH FASTBASE64.COREUTILS 1 "March 2026" "simdutf" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
fastbase64.coreutils \- base64 encode/decode data and print to standard output (coreutils compatible)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fastbase64.coreutils
[\fIOPTIONS\fR...] [\fIINPUTFILE\fR] [\fIOUTPUTFILE\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fastbase64.coreutils
encodes or decodes base64 data using the high-performance simdutf library,
with options compatible with GNU coreutils base64, plus clearly marked fastbase64-specific extensions.
By default, it encodes binary input to base64 output. On large files,
it can be several times faster than standard base64 tools.
.PP
.B fastbase64 extension (not present in GNU coreutils base64):
If a second filename is provided, it is used as the output file.
Otherwise, output goes to standard output. The \fB\-o\fR option takes precedence over positional output file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b, \-\-break=\fINUM\fR
fastbase64 extension (not present in GNU coreutils base64): break encoded output into lines of length \fINUM\fR (default 76, meaning breaks at 76 characters).
.TP
.B \-w, \-\-wrap=\fINUM\fR
Wrap encoded lines after \fINUM\fR characters (default 76). Use 0 to disable line wrapping.
.TP
.B \-d, \-D, \-\-decode
Decode input.
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-encode
Encode input (default).
.TP
.B \-\-ignore\-garbage
When decoding, ignore non-alphabet characters.
.TP
.B \-i, \-n, \-\-noerrcheck
When decoding, ignore non-alphabet characters (same as \-\-ignore\-garbage).
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-output=\fIFILE\fR
Output file (default: "-" for stdout).
.TP
.B \-\-version
Output version information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Encode a file:
.B fastbase64.coreutils myfile.txt
.TP
Decode base64 data ignoring garbage:
.B fastbase64.coreutils \-d \-i < encoded.txt
.SH AUTHOR
Written by the simdutf development team.