AI_USAGE_POLICY.md, before:

# AI Usage Policy

Contributors can use whatever tools they would like to
craft their contributions, but there must be a **human in the loop**.
**Contributors must read and review all LLM-generated code or text before they
ask other project members to review it.** The contributor is always the author
and is fully accountable for their contributions. Contributors should be
sufficiently confident that the contribution is high enough quality that asking
for a review is a good use of scarce maintainer time, and they should be **able
to answer questions about their work** during review.

We expect that new contributors will be less confident in their contributions,
and our guidance to them is to **start with small contributions** that they can
fully understand to build confidence. We aspire to be a welcoming community
that helps new contributors grow their expertise, but learning involves taking
small steps, getting feedback, and iterating. Passing maintainer feedback to an
LLM doesn't help anyone grow, and does not sustain our community.

This policy includes, but is not limited to, the following kinds of
contributions:

- Code, usually in the form of a pull request
- Issues or security vulnerabilities
- Comments and feedback on pull requests

## Extractive Contributions

The reason for our "human-in-the-loop" contribution policy is that processing
patches, PRs, RFCs, and comments is not free -- it takes a lot of
maintainer time and energy to review those contributions! Sending the
unreviewed output of an LLM to open source project maintainers *extracts* work
from them in the form of design and code review, so we call this kind of
contribution an "extractive contribution".


## Copyright

Artificial intelligence systems raise many questions around copyright that have
yet to be answered. Our policy on AI tools is similar to our copyright policy:
Contributors are responsible for ensuring that they have the right to
contribute code under the terms of our license, typically meaning that either
they, their employer, or their collaborators hold the copyright. Using AI tools
to regenerate copyrighted material does not remove the copyright, and
contributors are responsible for ensuring that such material does not appear in
their contributions. Contributions found to violate this policy will be removed
just like any other offending contribution.

## Reference

- [LLVM AI Tool Use Policy](https://discourse.llvm.org/t/rfc-llvm-ai-tool-policy-human-in-the-loop/89159)

Commit message:

Add transparency guidelines for AI-assisted contributions
Added a section on transparency regarding AI assistance in contributions.

AI_USAGE_POLICY.md, after:

# AI Usage Policy

Contributors can use whatever tools they would like to
craft their contributions, but there must be a **human in the loop**.
**Contributors must read and review all LLM-generated code or text before they
ask other project members to review it.** The contributor is always the author
and is fully accountable for their contributions. Contributors should be
sufficiently confident that the contribution is high enough quality that asking
for a review is a good use of scarce maintainer time, and they should be **able
to answer questions about their work** during review.

We expect that new contributors will be less confident in their contributions,
and our guidance to them is to **start with small contributions** that they can
fully understand to build confidence. We aspire to be a welcoming community
that helps new contributors grow their expertise, but learning involves taking
small steps, getting feedback, and iterating. Passing maintainer feedback to an
LLM doesn't help anyone grow, and does not sustain our community.

This policy includes, but is not limited to, the following kinds of
contributions:

- Code, usually in the form of a pull request
- Issues or security vulnerabilities
- Comments and feedback on pull requests

## Extractive Contributions

The reason for our "human-in-the-loop" contribution policy is that processing
patches, PRs, RFCs, and comments is not free -- it takes a lot of
maintainer time and energy to review those contributions! Sending the
unreviewed output of an LLM to open source project maintainers *extracts* work
from them in the form of design and code review, so we call this kind of
contribution an "extractive contribution".

## Transparency

For contributions involving significant AI assistance, we encourage you to disclose 
its use and explain your process. If a submission appears to rely heavily on AI 
without disclosure, we may doubt that the **human-in-the-loop** requirement has
been met. Please show awareness of your use of AI.

## Copyright

Artificial intelligence systems raise many questions around copyright that have
yet to be answered. Our policy on AI tools is similar to our copyright policy:
Contributors are responsible for ensuring that they have the right to
contribute code under the terms of our license, typically meaning that either
they, their employer, or their collaborators hold the copyright. Using AI tools
to regenerate copyrighted material does not remove the copyright, and
contributors are responsible for ensuring that such material does not appear in
their contributions. Contributions found to violate this policy will be removed
just like any other offending contribution.

## Reference

- [LLVM AI Tool Use Policy](https://discourse.llvm.org/t/rfc-llvm-ai-tool-policy-human-in-the-loop/89159)
