README.md, before:

[![Alpine Linux](https://github.com/lemire/simdutf/actions/workflows/alpine.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lemire/simdutf/actions/workflows/alpine.yml)
[![MSYS2-CI](https://github.com/lemire/simdutf/actions/workflows/msys2.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lemire/simdutf/actions/workflows/msys2.yml)
[![MSYS2-CLANG-CI](https://github.com/lemire/simdutf/actions/workflows/msys2-clang.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lemire/simdutf/actions/workflows/msys2-clang.yml)
[![Ubuntu 20.04 CI (GCC 9)](https://github.com/lemire/simdutf/actions/workflows/ubuntu20sani.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lemire/simdutf/actions/workflows/ubuntu20sani.yml)
[![VS16-ARM-CI](https://github.com/lemire/simdutf/actions/workflows/vs16-arm-ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lemire/simdutf/actions/workflows/vs16-arm-ci.yml)
[![VS16-CI](https://github.com/lemire/simdutf/actions/workflows/vs16-ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lemire/simdutf/actions/workflows/vs16-ci.yml)

simdutf: insanely fast Unicode validation and transcoding
===============================================

This library provide fast Unicode functions such as

- UTF-8 and UTF-16 validation
- UTF-8 to UTF-16 transcoding, with or without validation.
- UTF-16 to UTF-8 transcoding, with or without validation.
- UTF-8 and UTF-16 character counting

The functions are accelerated using SIMD instructions
(e.g., ARM NEON, SSE, AVX, etc.).

Requirements
-------

- C++17 compatible compiler. We support LLVM clang, GCC, Visual Studio.
- Recent CMake (at least 3.15)

Usage
-------

```
cmake -B build
cmake --build build
cd build
ctest .
```

To run benchmarks, execute the `benchmark` command. You can get help on its
usage by first building it and then calling it with the `--help` flag.
E.g., under Linux you may do the following:

```
cmake -B build
cmake --build build
./build/benchmarks/benchmark --help
```

API
-----

```C++
namespace simdutf {

/**
 * Validate the UTF-8 string.
 *
 * @param input the string to validate.
 * @param length the length of the string in bytes.
 * @return true if the string is valid UTF-8.
 */
simdutf_warn_unused bool validate_utf8(const char * input, size_t length) noexcept;

/**
 * Validate the UTF-16 string.
 *
 * @param buf the string to validate.
 * @param len the length of the string in bytes.
 * @return true if the string is valid UTF-16.
 */
simdutf_warn_unused bool validate_utf16(const char16_t * buf, size_t len) noexcept;

/**
 * Convert possibly broken UTF-8 string into UTF-16 string.
 *
 * During the conversion also validation of the input string is done.
 * This function is suitable to work with inputs from untrusted sources.
 *
 * @param input         the string to convert
 * @param length        the length of the string in bytes
 * @param utf16_buffer  the pointer to buffer that can hold conversion result
 * @return the number of written bytes; 0 if the input was not valid UTF-8 string
 */
simdutf_warn_unused size_t convert_utf8_to_utf16(const char * input, size_t length, char16_t* utf16_output) noexcept;

/**
 * Convert valid UTF-8 string into UTF-16 string.
 *
 * This function assumes that the input string is valid UTF-8.
 *
 * @param input         the string to convert
 * @param length        the length of the string in bytes
 * @param utf16_buffer  the pointer to buffer that can hold conversion result
 * @return the number of written char16_t words
 */
simdutf_warn_unused size_t convert_valid_utf8_to_utf16(const char * input, size_t length, char16_t* utf16_buffer) noexcept;

/**
 * Convert possibly broken UTF-16 string into UTF-8 string.
 *
 * During the conversion also validation of the input string is done.
 * This function is suitable to work with inputs from untrusted sources.
 *
 * @param input         the string to convert
 * @param length        the length of the string in bytes
 * @param utf8_buffer   the pointer to buffer that can hold conversion result
 * @return number of written char16_t words; 0 if input is not a valid UTF-16 string
 */
simdutf_warn_unused size_t convert_utf16_to_utf8(const char16_t * buf, size_t len, char* utf8_buffer) noexcept;

/**
 * Convert valid UTF-16 string into UTF-8 string.
 *
 * This function assumes that the input string is valid UTF-16.
 *
 * @param input         the string to convert
 * @param length        the length of the string in bytes
 * @param utf8_buffer   the pointer to buffer that can hold conversion result
 * @return number of written bytes; 0 if conversion is not possible
 */
simdutf_warn_unused size_t convert_valid_utf16_to_utf8(const char16_t * buf, size_t len, char* utf8_buffer) noexcept;


/**
 * Count the number of code points (characters) in the string assuming that
 * it is valid.
 *
 * This function assumes that the input string is valid UTF-16.
 *
 * This function is not BOM-aware.
 *
 * @param input         the string to process
 * @param length        the length of the string in words
 * @return number of code points
 */
simdutf_warn_unused size_t count_utf16(const char16_t * input, size_t length) noexcept;

/**
 * Count the number of code points (characters) in the string assuming that
 * it is valid.
 *
 * This function assumes that the input string is valid UTF-8.
 *
 * @param input         the string to process
 * @param length        the length of the string in bytes
 * @return number of code points
 */
simdutf_warn_unused size_t count_utf8(const char * input, size_t length) noexcept;

}
```

Testing data
------------

We recommend the following data repository.

https://github.com/lemire/unicode_lipsum

License
-------

This code is made available under the [Apache License 2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html) as well as the MIT license.

We include a few competitive solutions under the benchmarks/competition directory. They are provided for
research purposes only.

Commit message:

Testing the single-header version.

README.md, after:

[![Alpine Linux](https://github.com/lemire/simdutf/actions/workflows/alpine.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lemire/simdutf/actions/workflows/alpine.yml)
[![MSYS2-CI](https://github.com/lemire/simdutf/actions/workflows/msys2.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lemire/simdutf/actions/workflows/msys2.yml)
[![MSYS2-CLANG-CI](https://github.com/lemire/simdutf/actions/workflows/msys2-clang.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lemire/simdutf/actions/workflows/msys2-clang.yml)
[![Ubuntu 20.04 CI (GCC 9)](https://github.com/lemire/simdutf/actions/workflows/ubuntu20sani.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lemire/simdutf/actions/workflows/ubuntu20sani.yml)
[![VS16-ARM-CI](https://github.com/lemire/simdutf/actions/workflows/vs16-arm-ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lemire/simdutf/actions/workflows/vs16-arm-ci.yml)
[![VS16-CI](https://github.com/lemire/simdutf/actions/workflows/vs16-ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lemire/simdutf/actions/workflows/vs16-ci.yml)

simdutf: insanely fast Unicode validation and transcoding
===============================================

This library provide fast Unicode functions such as

- UTF-8 and UTF-16 validation
- UTF-8 to UTF-16 transcoding, with or without validation.
- UTF-16 to UTF-8 transcoding, with or without validation.
- UTF-8 and UTF-16 character counting

The functions are accelerated using SIMD instructions
(e.g., ARM NEON, SSE, AVX, etc.).

Requirements
-------

- C++17 compatible compiler. We support LLVM clang, GCC, Visual Studio.
- Recent CMake (at least 3.15)

Usage
-------

```
cmake -B build
cmake --build build
cd build
ctest .
```

To run benchmarks, execute the `benchmark` command. You can get help on its
usage by first building it and then calling it with the `--help` flag.
E.g., under Linux you may do the following:

```
cmake -B build
cmake --build build
./build/benchmarks/benchmark --help
```

Single-header version
----------------------

You can create a single-header version of the library where
all of the code is put into two files (`simdutf.h` and `simdutf.cpp`).

```
python3 ./singleheader/amalgamate.py
```

Under Linux and macOS, you may test it as follows:

```
cd singleheader
c++ -o amalgamation_demo amalgamation_demo.cpp -std=c++17
./amalgamation_demo
```

API
-----

```C++
namespace simdutf {

/**
 * Validate the UTF-8 string.
 *
 * @param input the string to validate.
 * @param length the length of the string in bytes.
 * @return true if the string is valid UTF-8.
 */
simdutf_warn_unused bool validate_utf8(const char * input, size_t length) noexcept;

/**
 * Validate the UTF-16 string.
 *
 * @param buf the string to validate.
 * @param len the length of the string in bytes.
 * @return true if the string is valid UTF-16.
 */
simdutf_warn_unused bool validate_utf16(const char16_t * buf, size_t len) noexcept;

/**
 * Convert possibly broken UTF-8 string into UTF-16 string.
 *
 * During the conversion also validation of the input string is done.
 * This function is suitable to work with inputs from untrusted sources.
 *
 * @param input         the string to convert
 * @param length        the length of the string in bytes
 * @param utf16_buffer  the pointer to buffer that can hold conversion result
 * @return the number of written bytes; 0 if the input was not valid UTF-8 string
 */
simdutf_warn_unused size_t convert_utf8_to_utf16(const char * input, size_t length, char16_t* utf16_output) noexcept;

/**
 * Convert valid UTF-8 string into UTF-16 string.
 *
 * This function assumes that the input string is valid UTF-8.
 *
 * @param input         the string to convert
 * @param length        the length of the string in bytes
 * @param utf16_buffer  the pointer to buffer that can hold conversion result
 * @return the number of written char16_t words
 */
simdutf_warn_unused size_t convert_valid_utf8_to_utf16(const char * input, size_t length, char16_t* utf16_buffer) noexcept;

/**
 * Convert possibly broken UTF-16 string into UTF-8 string.
 *
 * During the conversion also validation of the input string is done.
 * This function is suitable to work with inputs from untrusted sources.
 *
 * @param input         the string to convert
 * @param length        the length of the string in bytes
 * @param utf8_buffer   the pointer to buffer that can hold conversion result
 * @return number of written char16_t words; 0 if input is not a valid UTF-16 string
 */
simdutf_warn_unused size_t convert_utf16_to_utf8(const char16_t * buf, size_t len, char* utf8_buffer) noexcept;

/**
 * Convert valid UTF-16 string into UTF-8 string.
 *
 * This function assumes that the input string is valid UTF-16.
 *
 * @param input         the string to convert
 * @param length        the length of the string in bytes
 * @param utf8_buffer   the pointer to buffer that can hold conversion result
 * @return number of written bytes; 0 if conversion is not possible
 */
simdutf_warn_unused size_t convert_valid_utf16_to_utf8(const char16_t * buf, size_t len, char* utf8_buffer) noexcept;


/**
 * Count the number of code points (characters) in the string assuming that
 * it is valid.
 *
 * This function assumes that the input string is valid UTF-16.
 *
 * This function is not BOM-aware.
 *
 * @param input         the string to process
 * @param length        the length of the string in words
 * @return number of code points
 */
simdutf_warn_unused size_t count_utf16(const char16_t * input, size_t length) noexcept;

/**
 * Count the number of code points (characters) in the string assuming that
 * it is valid.
 *
 * This function assumes that the input string is valid UTF-8.
 *
 * @param input         the string to process
 * @param length        the length of the string in bytes
 * @return number of code points
 */
simdutf_warn_unused size_t count_utf8(const char * input, size_t length) noexcept;

}
```

Testing data
------------

We recommend the following data repository.

https://github.com/lemire/unicode_lipsum

License
-------

This code is made available under the [Apache License 2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html) as well as the MIT license.

We include a few competitive solutions under the benchmarks/competition directory. They are provided for
research purposes only.
